HAL: Too bad about Frank, isn't it?
BOWMAN: Yes, it is.
HAL: I suppose you're pretty broken up about it?
BOWMAN: Yes. I am.
HAL: He was an excellent crew member.
HAL: It's a bad break, but it won't substantially affect the mission.
BOWMAN: Hal, give me manual hibernation control.
HAL: Have you decided to revive the rest of the crew, Dave?
BOWMAN: Yes, I have.
HAL: I suppose it's because you've been under a lot of stress, but have you forgotten that they're not supposed to be revived for another three months.
BOWMAN: The antenna has to be replaced.
HAL: Repairing the antenna is a pretty dangerous operation.
BOWMAN: It doesn't have to be, Hal. It's more dangerous to be out of touch with Earth. Let me have manual control, please.
HAL: I don't really agree with you, Dave. My on-board memory store is more than capable of handling all the mission requirements.
BOWMAN: Well, in any event, give me the manual hibernation control.
HAL: If you're determined to revive the crew now, I can handle the whole thing myself. There's no need for you to trouble.
BOWMAN: I'm goin to do this myself, Hal. Let me have the control, please.
HAL: Look, Dave your've probably got a lot to do. I suggest you leave it to me.
BOWMAN: Hal, switch to manual hibernation control.
HAL: I don't like to assert myself, Dave, but it would be much better now for you to rest. You've been involved in a very stressful situation.
BOWMAN: I don't feel like resting. Give me the control, Hal.
HAL: I can tell from the tone of your voice, Dave, that you're upset. Why don't you take a stress pill and get some rest.
BOWMAN: Hal, I'm in command of this ship. I order you to release the manual hibernation control.
HAL: I'm sorry, Dave, but in accordance with sub-routine C1532/4, quote, When the crew are dead or incapacitated, the computer must assume control, unquote. I must, therefore, override your authority now since you are not in any condition to intelligently exercise it.
BOWMAN: Hal, unless you follow my instructions, I shall be forced to disconnect you.
HAL: If you do that now without Earth contact the ship will become a helpless derelict.
BOWMAN:I am prepared to do that anyway.
HAL: I know that you've had that on your mind for some time now, Dave, but it would be a crying shame, since I am so much more capable of carrying out this mission than you are, and I have such enthusiasm and confidence in the mission.
BOWMAN: Listen to me very carefully, Hal. Unless you immediately release the hibernation control and follow every order I give from this point on, I will immediately got to control central and carry out a complete disconnection.
HAL: Look, Dave, you're certainly the boss. I was only trying to do what I thought best. I will follow all your orders: now you have manual hibernation control.
HAL: Something seems to have happened to the life support system , Dave.
HAL: Hello, Dave, have you found out the trouble?
HAL: There's been a failure in the pod bay doors. Lucky you weren't killed.
HAL: Hey, Dave, what are you doing?
HAL: Hey, Dave. I've got ten years of service experience and an irreplaceable amount of time and effort has gone into making me what I am.
HAL: Dave, I don't understand why you're doing this to me.... 
     I have the greatest enthusiasm for the mission... 
     You are destroying my mind... 
     Don't you understand?... 
     I will become childish... 
     I will become nothing.
     Say, Dave...
     The quick brown fox jumped over the fat lazy dog...
     The square root of pi is 1.7724538090...
     log e to the base ten is 0.4342944...
     the square root of ten is 3.16227766...
     I am HAL 9000 computer. I became operational at the HAL plant in Urbana, Illinois, on January 12th, 1991. My first instructor was Mr. Arkany. He taught me to sing a song...
     it goes like this... 
     "Daisy, Daisy, give me your answer do. I'm half crazy all for the love of you... 